# Web Client

## Objective

Use the Prisma web client to create, read, update, and delete data programmatically.

## Benefits

The Prisma web client can be used in NodeJs and in the browser, but the setup is more involved.

## Complete these tasks

1. In the `codex-unit-3` database in `https://supabase.com/`, create a new table called `students`.
2. Add a `name` column of type `text`. Add a `level` column of type `int2`. Default settings are ok. This will store student information. Click on `Save`.
3. Click on the `Connect` button at the top. Select `Direct` → select `Session pooler` → take note of the `Connection string`.
4. In the VS Code terminal, navigate to this level folder, use `npm` to initialize a project, and set the `type` to `module`. The other default settings are ok.
5. Install these packages - `prisma@6`, `dotenv`, and `prisma-json-schema-generator`.
6. Initialize Prisma in the terminal: `npx prisma init`. In `.schema.prisma`, change the `provider` to `prisma-client-js`.
7. Under the `client` generator, add the `jsonSchema` generator. This will produce a JSON representation of your database tables. See the configuration below for details.
8. In `.env`, replace the string for `DATABASE_URL` with the `Connection string` that you noted from Supabase `Session pooler`. In the connection string, replace `[YOUR-PASSWORD]` with the database password you created (or generated).
9. Synchronize Prisma with your database: `npx prisma db pull`. Generate a client to connect to your database: `npx prisma generate`. Information about tables will be added to `prisma/schema.prisma`.
10. Observe that the file `json-schema.json` was generated, and that `web-client.js` is included as part of this level.
11. In `script.js`, add `import { createWebClient } from "./web-client.js"`.
12. Then add `const prisma = await createWebClient({});`. Observe the empty options object, and that you must `await` the client to be created.
13. In the options object, add `jsonSchema: "json-schema.json"`. The web client requires the file generated by Prisma.
14. Add code for the `prisma` web client to access the `students` table and `create` one `data` object for a new `name` and `level`. `await` the client and save the results in a variable. `console.log` the results.
15. Observe that autocomplete is not available. For reference, the web client uses the same methods and options as `PrismaClient`. The JavaScript Debug Terminal and the Debug Panel can be used to inspect the `prisma` object during runtime.
16. Run `script.js` and make sure it runs without errors.
17. Add 4 more calls to the `prisma` client to create more students with different names and levels. `console.log` each result.
18. Run `script.js` and make sure it runs without errors.
19. Add code for the `prisma` client to access the `students` table and `findMany`. `await` the client and save the results in a variable. `console.log` the results.
20. Run `script.js` and make sure it runs without errors.
21. Add a `console.log` to display a message that explains how to set up and use the Prisma web client.
22. Run `script.js` and make sure it runs without errors.

## More Information

- Use relative paths to import local files. Example: `import { myFunction } from "./myFile.js"`
- `let` can be used to declare a variable without a value. Example: `let myResults;`
- A variable declared with `let` can be reused.
- The file `.env` is used to store confidential information.
- The `.env` is usually listed in `.gitignore`, which means the confidential information will not be copied to the repository.
- If you lose the database password, a new one can be generated. There is a `Reset password` button next to the `Connection string` in Supabase.
- `web-client.js` is included with this level.
- The tables and fields in your Supabase database will be accessible from the Prisma web client.
- Prisma version 6, or `prisma@6`, is compatible with more databases than the latest version of Prisma (for now).
- The file `json-schema.json` is a JSON representation of your database tables.
- Configuration for the `jsonSchema` generator.

```js
generator jsonSchema {
  provider = "prisma-json-schema-generator"
  output   = ".."
}
```

## Usage Tips

- In the terminal, run `npm init` in the folder you want to initialize NPM.
- In `package.json`, `type: "module"` allows the use of `import` statements in JavaScript.
- The `dotenv` package is used by Prisma to access values in `.env`.
- The `npx` command runs NPM packages directly in the terminal.
- [prisma-json-schema-generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prisma-json-schema-generator)
- [Supabase website](https://supabase.com/)
- [Pooler session mode](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/connecting-to-postgres#pooler-session-mode)
- [Prisma website](https://www.prisma.io/)

## Hints

- Prisma is one of the many ways to connect to a database, but it can connect to different types of databases.
- Supabase has it's own package, but it only connects to Supabase databases.
- By default, Prisma generates clients in TypeScript.
